doc/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribute

**Opening a new issue?** Please read [ISSUES.md](../ISSUES.md) first.

**Want an introductory guide for creating game content?** You might want to
read the [Guide to adding new content to CDDA for first time
contributors](https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA/wiki/Guide-to-adding-new-content-to-CDDA-for-first-time-contributors)
on the CDDA wiki.

Cataclysm:Dark Days Ahead is released under the Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 3.0 license. The code and content of the game is free to use, modify, and redistribute for any purpose whatsoever. See http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ for details.
This means any contribution you make to the project will also be covered by the same license, and this license is irrevocable.

## Using a good text editor

Most of the Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead game data is defined in JSON files.
These files are intended to be easy for you to edit, but there are some
pitfalls.  Using Windows Notepad can get you into trouble, because it likes to
insert a special character called a [BOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark) at the start of the file, which CDDA
does not want.

If you're going to be editing JSON files consider getting a more fully-featured
editor such as [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/).

## All PRs must have a "Summary" section

Summary is a *mandatory* one-line description of your change that will be extracted and added to [the project changelog](../data/changelog.txt).
If the summary is invalid, your PR is unable to get merged.

The format is:

```markdown
#### Summary
Category "description"
```

The categories to choose from are: Features, Content, Interface, Mods, Balance, Bugfixes, Performance, Infrastructure, Build, I18N.

Example:

```markdown
#### Summary
Content "Adds new mutation category 'Mouse'"
```

Or, if you want it treated as a minor tweak that doesn't appear in the changelog:

```markdown
#### Summary
None
```

See [the Changelog Guidelines](../doc/CHANGELOG_GUIDELINES.md) for explanations of the categories.

## Contributing via GitHub

Contributing to Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead is easy — simply [fork](https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA/fork) the repository here on GitHub, make your changes, and then send us a pull request.

There are a couple of guidelines we suggest sticking to (see [#Example Workflow](#example-workflow)):

* Keep your `master` branch clean. This means you can easily pull changes made to this repository into yours.
* Create a new branch for each new feature or set of related bug fixes.
* Never merge from your local branches into your `master` branch. Only update that by pulling from `upstream/master`. GitHub has a button to update the master branch of your fork, so you do not need to know how to use git for this.

## Code Style

Code style is enforced across the codebase by `astyle`.
See [CODE_STYLE](../doc/c++/CODE_STYLE.md) for details.

## Translations

The translation of Cataclysm: DDA is done using Transifex.
Look at the [translation project](https://www.transifex.com/cataclysm-dda-translators/cataclysm-dda/) for an up-to-date list of supported languages.

See [TRANSLATING.md](../doc/TRANSLATING.md) for more information:

* [For translators](../doc/TRANSLATING.md#translators)
* [For developers](../doc/TRANSLATING.md#developers)
* [For maintainers](../doc/TRANSLATING.md#maintainers)

## Doxygen Comments

Extensive documentation of classes and class members will make the code more readable. New Doxygen comments for existing classes are a welcomed contribution.

Use the following template for commenting classes:

```c++
/**
 * Brief description
 *
 * Lengthy description with many words. (optional)
 */
class foo {
```

Use the following template for commenting functions:

```c++
/**
 * Brief description
 *
 * Lengthy description with many words. (optional)
 * @param param1 Description of param1 (optional)
 * @return Description of return (optional)
 */
int foo(int param1);
```

Use the following template for commenting member variables:

```c++
/** Brief description **/
int foo;
```

Helpful pages:

* [Doxygen Manual - Special Commands](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/commands.html)
* [Doxygen Manual - Standard Markdown](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/markdown.html#markdown_std)
* [Doxygen Manual - Frequently Asked Questions](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/faq.html)

### Guidelines for adding documentation

* Doxygen comments should describe behavior towards the outside, not implementation, but since many classes in Cataclysm are intertwined, it's often necessary to describe implementation.
* Describe things that aren't obvious just from the name.
* Don't describe redundantly: `/** Map **/; map* map;` is not a helpful comment.
* When documenting X, describe how X interacts with other components, not just what X itself does.

### Building the documentation for viewing it locally

* Install doxygen
* `doxygen doxygen_doc/doxygen_conf.txt `
* `firefox doxygen_doc/html/index.html` (replace firefox with your browser of choice)

## Example Workflow

#### Setup your environment

*(This only needs to be done once.)*

1. [Fork](https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA/fork) this repository here on GitHub.

**Note:** Fork is different from branch, branches are covered [later](#make-your-changes).

2. Clone your fork locally.

    ```bash
    # Clones your fork of the repository into the current directory in terminal
    $ git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    # Alternatively if you don't want to clone an entire big history (5GB!)
    $ git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    ```

3. Set commit message template.

    ```bash
    # Changes the active directory in the prompt to the newly cloned "Cataclysm-DDA" directory
    $ cd Cataclysm-DDA
    # Set commit message template to the custom one in the repo
    $ git config --local commit.template .gitmessage
    ```

4. Add this repository as a remote.

    ```bash
    # Assigns the original repository to a remote called "upstream"
    $ git remote add -f upstream https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    ```

For further details about commit message guidelines please visit:
- [codeinthehole.com](https://codeinthehole.com/tips/a-useful-template-for-commit-messages/)
- [chris.beams.io](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
- [help.github.com](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/)

#### Update your `master` branch

1. Make sure you have your `master` branch checked out.

```bash
$ git checkout master
```

2. Pull the changes from the `upstream/master` branch.

```bash
$ git pull --ff-only upstream master
# gets changes from "master" branch on the "upstream" remote
```

 * Note: If this gives you an error, it means you have committed directly to your local `master` branch. [Click here for instructions on how to fix this issue](#why-does-git-pull---ff-only-result-in-an-error).

3. Pull new tags from the `upstream` remote repo.

This step is not necessary to compile or contribute, but skipping it can result in outdated version numbers on your builds.

```bash
$ git fetch upstream --tags
# gets new tags from the "upstream" remote
```

4. Optionally, push the synced master state to the `origin/master` branch.

```bash
$ git push origin master
# push the synced master state to your fork
```

#### Make your changes

0. Update your `master` branch, if you haven't already.

1. For each new feature or bug fix, create a new branch.

```bash
# Creates a new branch called "new_feature" and switches to it
$ git checkout -b new_feature
```

2. Once you've committed some changes locally, you need to push them to your fork here on GitHub.

```bash
# origin was automatically set to point to your fork when you cloned it
$ git push origin new_feature
```

3. Once you're finished working on your branch, and have committed and pushed all your changes, submit a pull request from your `new_feature` branch to this repository's `master` branch.

 * Note: any new commits to the `new_feature` branch on GitHub will automatically be included in the pull request, so make sure to only commit related changes to the same branch.

## Drafts

If you file a PR but you're still working on it, please make it a [Draft](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork).

![screenshot](https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/pull_requests/pullrequest-send.png)

This will tell the reviewers that you still intend to add more to the PR and we don't need to review it yet. When it's ready to be reviewed for a merger, just click the [`Ready for review`](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request) button.

![screenshot](https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/pull_requests/ready-for-review-button.png)

Please convert all your existing PRs with `[WIP]` in the title to Drafts.

![screenshot](https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/pull_requests/convert-to-draft-link.png)

This can help speed up our review process by allowing us to only review the things that are ready for it, and will help prevent merging in anything that isn't completely ready.

### Comment requests

If you are also looking for suggestions then add a [CR] before the title text — "comments requested". Feel free to remove [CR] when you feel you got enough information to proceed.

It is not required to solve or reference an open issue to file a PR, however, if you do so, you need to explain the problem your PR is solving in full detail.

### Keep your PR description relevant

Make sure your PR description is still relevant every time you change your branch after discussion or additional thought.

### Closing issues using keywords

When your PR should close an issue, please include [closing keywords](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/):

* close
* closes
* closed
* fix
* fixes
* fixed
* resolve
* resolves
* resolved

## Tooling support

Various tools are available to help you keep your contributions conforming to the appropriate style. See [DEVELOPER_TOOLING.md](../doc/c++/DEVELOPER_TOOLING.md) for more details.

## Advanced Techniques

These guidelines aren't essential, but they can make keeping things in order much easier.

#### Using remote tracking branches

Remote tracking branches allow you to easily stay in touch with this repository's `master` branch, as they automatically know which remote branch to get changes from.

```bash
$ git branch -vv
* master      xxxx [origin/master] ....
  new_feature xxxx ....
```

Here you can see we have two branches; `master` which is tracking `origin/master`, and `new_feature` which isn't tracking any branch. In practice, what this means is that git won't know where to get changes from.

```bash
$ git checkout new_feature
Switched to branch 'new_feature'
$ git pull
There is no tracking information for the current branch.
Please specify which branch you want to merge with.
```

In order to easily pull changes from `upstream/master` into the `new_feature` branch, we can tell git which branch it should track. (You can even do this for your local master branch.)

```bash
$ git branch -u upstream/master new_feature
Branch new_feature set up to track remote branch master from upstream.
$ git pull
Updating xxxx..xxxx
....
```

You can also set the tracking information at the same time as creating the branch.

    $ git branch new_feature_2 --track upstream/master
    Branch new_feature_2 set up to track remote branch master from upstream.

 * Note: Although this makes it easier to pull from `upstream/master`, it doesn't change anything with regards to pushing. `git push` fails because you don't have permission to push to `upstream/master`.

    ```bash
    $ git push
    error: The requested URL returned error: 403 while accessing https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    fatal: HTTP request failed
    $ git push origin
    ....
    To https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    xxxx..xxxx  new_feature -> new_feature
    ```

## Unit tests

There is a suite of tests built into the source tree at tests/  
You should run the test suite after ANY change to the game source.  
An ordinary invocation of `make` will build the test executable at `tests/cata_test`, and it can be invoked like any ordinary executable, or via `make check`.
Running `tests/cata_test` with no arguments will run the entire test suite; running it with `--help` will print a number of invocation options you can use to adjust its operation.

```bash
$ make
... compilation details ...
$ tests/cata_test
Starting the actual test at Fri Nov  9 04:37:03 2018
===============================================================================
All tests passed (1324684 assertions in 94 test cases)
Ended test at Fri Nov  9 04:37:45 2018
The test took 41.772 seconds
```

It is recommended to habitually invoke make like ``make YOUR BUILD OPTIONS && make check``.

If you're working with Visual Studio (and don't have `make`), see [Visual Studio-specific advice](../doc/c++/COMPILING-VS-VCPKG.md#running-unit-tests).

If you want/need to add a test, see [TESTING.md](../doc/c++/TESTING.md)

## In-game testing, test environment and the debug menu

Whether you are implementing a new feature or whether you are fixing a bug, it is always a good practice to test your changes in-game. It can be a hard task to create the exact conditions by playing a normal game to be able to test your changes, which is why there is a debug menu. There is no default key to bring up the menu so you will need to assign one first.

Bring up the keybindings menu (press `Escape` then `1`), scroll down almost to the bottom and press `+` to add a new keybinding. Press the letter that corresponds to the *Debug menu* item, then press the key you want to use to bring up the debug menu. To test your changes, create a new world with a new character. Once you are in that world, press the key you just assigned for the debug menu and you should see:

```
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Debug Functions - Using these will cheat not only the game, but yourself. │
│ You won't grow. You won't improve.                                        │
│ Taking this shortcut will gain you nothing. Your victory will be hollow.  │
│ Nothing will be risked and nothing will be gained.                        │
├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ i Info…                                                                   │
│ g Game…                                                                   │
│ s Spawning…                                                               │
│ p Player…                                                                 │
│ v Vehicle…                                                                │
│ t Teleport…                                                               │
│ m Map…                                                                    │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

With these commands, you should be able to recreate the proper conditions to test your changes.

## Frequently Asked Questions

#### Why does `git pull --ff-only` result in an error?

If `git pull --ff-only` shows an error, it means that you've committed directly to your local `master` branch. To fix this, we create a new branch with these commits, find the point at which we diverged from `upstream/master`, and then reset `master` to that point.

```bash
$ git pull --ff-only upstream master
From https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA
 * branch            master     -> FETCH_HEAD
fatal: Not possible to fast-forward, aborting.
$ git branch new_branch master          # mark the current commit with a tmp branch
$ git merge-base master upstream/master
cc31d0... # the last commit before we committed directly to master
$ git reset --hard cc31d0....
HEAD is now at cc31d0... ...
```

Now that `master` has been cleaned up, we can easily pull from `upstream/master`, and then continue working on `new_branch`.

```bash
$ git pull --ff-only upstream master
# gets changes from the "upstream" remote for the matching branch, in this case "master"
$ git checkout new_branch
```

#### Oh no! I've made my changes to `master` branch and have pushed it to my repo! What should I do now?
Assuming `upstream` is `CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA` and `origin` is your fork, do the commands:
```bash
git reset upstream/master
git push --repo=origin --force
```

For more frequently asked questions, see the [developer FAQ](../doc/DEVELOPER_FAQ.md).

Commit message:

Draft NO AI policy in contributing doc (#80253)
* Draft NO AI policy in contributing doc

It's now come up several times, so adding a note to the contributing doc that LLM generated contributions are not acceptable.

* Update doc/CONTRIBUTING.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Maleclypse <54345792+Maleclypse@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribute

**Opening a new issue?** Please read [ISSUES.md](../ISSUES.md) first.

**Want an introductory guide for creating game content?** You might want to
read the [Guide to adding new content to CDDA for first time
contributors](https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA/wiki/Guide-to-adding-new-content-to-CDDA-for-first-time-contributors)
on the CDDA wiki.

Cataclysm:Dark Days Ahead is released under the Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 3.0 license. The code and content of the game is free to use, modify, and redistribute for any purpose whatsoever. See http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ for details.
This means any contribution you make to the project will also be covered by the same license, and this license is irrevocable.

## Licensing and Authorship

All contributions must be authored by the submitter, with a few exceptions such as porting changes from another fork while maintaining attributions.
This additionally means that content sourced from LLMs such as ChatGPT are not allowed as they do not have any authorship, and additionally the provenance of this kind of content is legally and morally questionable at best.
If you are porting content from another fork, you must arrange your commits such that the original authorhip is preserved, i.e. the commits should appear in your branch the same as they do in the fork you pulled them from with the Author field indicating the original author.  You must additionally perform due dilligence that the changes you are porting are themselves authored by a human and not generated by a LLM.

## Using a good text editor

Most of the Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead game data is defined in JSON files.
These files are intended to be easy for you to edit, but there are some
pitfalls.  Using Windows Notepad can get you into trouble, because it likes to
insert a special character called a [BOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark) at the start of the file, which CDDA
does not want.

If you're going to be editing JSON files consider getting a more fully-featured
editor such as [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/).

## All PRs must have a "Summary" section

Summary is a *mandatory* one-line description of your change that will be extracted and added to [the project changelog](../data/changelog.txt).
If the summary is invalid, your PR is unable to get merged.

The format is:

```markdown
#### Summary
Category "description"
```

The categories to choose from are: Features, Content, Interface, Mods, Balance, Bugfixes, Performance, Infrastructure, Build, I18N.

Example:

```markdown
#### Summary
Content "Adds new mutation category 'Mouse'"
```

Or, if you want it treated as a minor tweak that doesn't appear in the changelog:

```markdown
#### Summary
None
```

See [the Changelog Guidelines](../doc/CHANGELOG_GUIDELINES.md) for explanations of the categories.

## Contributing via GitHub

Contributing to Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead is easy — simply [fork](https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA/fork) the repository here on GitHub, make your changes, and then send us a pull request.

There are a couple of guidelines we suggest sticking to (see [#Example Workflow](#example-workflow)):

* Keep your `master` branch clean. This means you can easily pull changes made to this repository into yours.
* Create a new branch for each new feature or set of related bug fixes.
* Never merge from your local branches into your `master` branch. Only update that by pulling from `upstream/master`. GitHub has a button to update the master branch of your fork, so you do not need to know how to use git for this.

## Code Style

Code style is enforced across the codebase by `astyle`.
See [CODE_STYLE](../doc/c++/CODE_STYLE.md) for details.

## Translations

The translation of Cataclysm: DDA is done using Transifex.
Look at the [translation project](https://www.transifex.com/cataclysm-dda-translators/cataclysm-dda/) for an up-to-date list of supported languages.

See [TRANSLATING.md](../doc/TRANSLATING.md) for more information:

* [For translators](../doc/TRANSLATING.md#translators)
* [For developers](../doc/TRANSLATING.md#developers)
* [For maintainers](../doc/TRANSLATING.md#maintainers)

## Doxygen Comments

Extensive documentation of classes and class members will make the code more readable. New Doxygen comments for existing classes are a welcomed contribution.

Use the following template for commenting classes:

```c++
/**
 * Brief description
 *
 * Lengthy description with many words. (optional)
 */
class foo {
```

Use the following template for commenting functions:

```c++
/**
 * Brief description
 *
 * Lengthy description with many words. (optional)
 * @param param1 Description of param1 (optional)
 * @return Description of return (optional)
 */
int foo(int param1);
```

Use the following template for commenting member variables:

```c++
/** Brief description **/
int foo;
```

Helpful pages:

* [Doxygen Manual - Special Commands](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/commands.html)
* [Doxygen Manual - Standard Markdown](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/markdown.html#markdown_std)
* [Doxygen Manual - Frequently Asked Questions](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/faq.html)

### Guidelines for adding documentation

* Doxygen comments should describe behavior towards the outside, not implementation, but since many classes in Cataclysm are intertwined, it's often necessary to describe implementation.
* Describe things that aren't obvious just from the name.
* Don't describe redundantly: `/** Map **/; map* map;` is not a helpful comment.
* When documenting X, describe how X interacts with other components, not just what X itself does.

### Building the documentation for viewing it locally

* Install doxygen
* `doxygen doxygen_doc/doxygen_conf.txt `
* `firefox doxygen_doc/html/index.html` (replace firefox with your browser of choice)

## Example Workflow

#### Setup your environment

*(This only needs to be done once.)*

1. [Fork](https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA/fork) this repository here on GitHub.

**Note:** Fork is different from branch, branches are covered [later](#make-your-changes).

2. Clone your fork locally.

    ```bash
    # Clones your fork of the repository into the current directory in terminal
    $ git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    # Alternatively if you don't want to clone an entire big history (5GB!)
    $ git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    ```

3. Set commit message template.

    ```bash
    # Changes the active directory in the prompt to the newly cloned "Cataclysm-DDA" directory
    $ cd Cataclysm-DDA
    # Set commit message template to the custom one in the repo
    $ git config --local commit.template .gitmessage
    ```

4. Add this repository as a remote.

    ```bash
    # Assigns the original repository to a remote called "upstream"
    $ git remote add -f upstream https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    ```

For further details about commit message guidelines please visit:
- [codeinthehole.com](https://codeinthehole.com/tips/a-useful-template-for-commit-messages/)
- [chris.beams.io](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
- [help.github.com](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/)

#### Update your `master` branch

1. Make sure you have your `master` branch checked out.

```bash
$ git checkout master
```

2. Pull the changes from the `upstream/master` branch.

```bash
$ git pull --ff-only upstream master
# gets changes from "master" branch on the "upstream" remote
```

 * Note: If this gives you an error, it means you have committed directly to your local `master` branch. [Click here for instructions on how to fix this issue](#why-does-git-pull---ff-only-result-in-an-error).

3. Pull new tags from the `upstream` remote repo.

This step is not necessary to compile or contribute, but skipping it can result in outdated version numbers on your builds.

```bash
$ git fetch upstream --tags
# gets new tags from the "upstream" remote
```

4. Optionally, push the synced master state to the `origin/master` branch.

```bash
$ git push origin master
# push the synced master state to your fork
```

#### Make your changes

0. Update your `master` branch, if you haven't already.

1. For each new feature or bug fix, create a new branch.

```bash
# Creates a new branch called "new_feature" and switches to it
$ git checkout -b new_feature
```

2. Once you've committed some changes locally, you need to push them to your fork here on GitHub.

```bash
# origin was automatically set to point to your fork when you cloned it
$ git push origin new_feature
```

3. Once you're finished working on your branch, and have committed and pushed all your changes, submit a pull request from your `new_feature` branch to this repository's `master` branch.

 * Note: any new commits to the `new_feature` branch on GitHub will automatically be included in the pull request, so make sure to only commit related changes to the same branch.

## Drafts

If you file a PR but you're still working on it, please make it a [Draft](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork).

![screenshot](https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/pull_requests/pullrequest-send.png)

This will tell the reviewers that you still intend to add more to the PR and we don't need to review it yet. When it's ready to be reviewed for a merger, just click the [`Ready for review`](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request) button.

![screenshot](https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/pull_requests/ready-for-review-button.png)

Please convert all your existing PRs with `[WIP]` in the title to Drafts.

![screenshot](https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/pull_requests/convert-to-draft-link.png)

This can help speed up our review process by allowing us to only review the things that are ready for it, and will help prevent merging in anything that isn't completely ready.

### Comment requests

If you are also looking for suggestions then add a [CR] before the title text — "comments requested". Feel free to remove [CR] when you feel you got enough information to proceed.

It is not required to solve or reference an open issue to file a PR, however, if you do so, you need to explain the problem your PR is solving in full detail.

### Keep your PR description relevant

Make sure your PR description is still relevant every time you change your branch after discussion or additional thought.

### Closing issues using keywords

When your PR should close an issue, please include [closing keywords](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/):

* close
* closes
* closed
* fix
* fixes
* fixed
* resolve
* resolves
* resolved

## Tooling support

Various tools are available to help you keep your contributions conforming to the appropriate style. See [DEVELOPER_TOOLING.md](../doc/c++/DEVELOPER_TOOLING.md) for more details.

## Advanced Techniques

These guidelines aren't essential, but they can make keeping things in order much easier.

#### Using remote tracking branches

Remote tracking branches allow you to easily stay in touch with this repository's `master` branch, as they automatically know which remote branch to get changes from.

```bash
$ git branch -vv
* master      xxxx [origin/master] ....
  new_feature xxxx ....
```

Here you can see we have two branches; `master` which is tracking `origin/master`, and `new_feature` which isn't tracking any branch. In practice, what this means is that git won't know where to get changes from.

```bash
$ git checkout new_feature
Switched to branch 'new_feature'
$ git pull
There is no tracking information for the current branch.
Please specify which branch you want to merge with.
```

In order to easily pull changes from `upstream/master` into the `new_feature` branch, we can tell git which branch it should track. (You can even do this for your local master branch.)

```bash
$ git branch -u upstream/master new_feature
Branch new_feature set up to track remote branch master from upstream.
$ git pull
Updating xxxx..xxxx
....
```

You can also set the tracking information at the same time as creating the branch.

    $ git branch new_feature_2 --track upstream/master
    Branch new_feature_2 set up to track remote branch master from upstream.

 * Note: Although this makes it easier to pull from `upstream/master`, it doesn't change anything with regards to pushing. `git push` fails because you don't have permission to push to `upstream/master`.

    ```bash
    $ git push
    error: The requested URL returned error: 403 while accessing https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    fatal: HTTP request failed
    $ git push origin
    ....
    To https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Cataclysm-DDA.git
    xxxx..xxxx  new_feature -> new_feature
    ```

## Unit tests

There is a suite of tests built into the source tree at tests/  
You should run the test suite after ANY change to the game source.  
An ordinary invocation of `make` will build the test executable at `tests/cata_test`, and it can be invoked like any ordinary executable, or via `make check`.
Running `tests/cata_test` with no arguments will run the entire test suite; running it with `--help` will print a number of invocation options you can use to adjust its operation.

```bash
$ make
... compilation details ...
$ tests/cata_test
Starting the actual test at Fri Nov  9 04:37:03 2018
===============================================================================
All tests passed (1324684 assertions in 94 test cases)
Ended test at Fri Nov  9 04:37:45 2018
The test took 41.772 seconds
```

It is recommended to habitually invoke make like ``make YOUR BUILD OPTIONS && make check``.

If you're working with Visual Studio (and don't have `make`), see [Visual Studio-specific advice](../doc/c++/COMPILING-VS-VCPKG.md#running-unit-tests).

If you want/need to add a test, see [TESTING.md](../doc/c++/TESTING.md)

## In-game testing, test environment and the debug menu

Whether you are implementing a new feature or whether you are fixing a bug, it is always a good practice to test your changes in-game. It can be a hard task to create the exact conditions by playing a normal game to be able to test your changes, which is why there is a debug menu. There is no default key to bring up the menu so you will need to assign one first.

Bring up the keybindings menu (press `Escape` then `1`), scroll down almost to the bottom and press `+` to add a new keybinding. Press the letter that corresponds to the *Debug menu* item, then press the key you want to use to bring up the debug menu. To test your changes, create a new world with a new character. Once you are in that world, press the key you just assigned for the debug menu and you should see:

```
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Debug Functions - Using these will cheat not only the game, but yourself. │
│ You won't grow. You won't improve.                                        │
│ Taking this shortcut will gain you nothing. Your victory will be hollow.  │
│ Nothing will be risked and nothing will be gained.                        │
├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ i Info…                                                                   │
│ g Game…                                                                   │
│ s Spawning…                                                               │
│ p Player…                                                                 │
│ v Vehicle…                                                                │
│ t Teleport…                                                               │
│ m Map…                                                                    │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

With these commands, you should be able to recreate the proper conditions to test your changes.

## Frequently Asked Questions

#### Why does `git pull --ff-only` result in an error?

If `git pull --ff-only` shows an error, it means that you've committed directly to your local `master` branch. To fix this, we create a new branch with these commits, find the point at which we diverged from `upstream/master`, and then reset `master` to that point.

```bash
$ git pull --ff-only upstream master
From https://github.com/CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA
 * branch            master     -> FETCH_HEAD
fatal: Not possible to fast-forward, aborting.
$ git branch new_branch master          # mark the current commit with a tmp branch
$ git merge-base master upstream/master
cc31d0... # the last commit before we committed directly to master
$ git reset --hard cc31d0....
HEAD is now at cc31d0... ...
```

Now that `master` has been cleaned up, we can easily pull from `upstream/master`, and then continue working on `new_branch`.

```bash
$ git pull --ff-only upstream master
# gets changes from the "upstream" remote for the matching branch, in this case "master"
$ git checkout new_branch
```

#### Oh no! I've made my changes to `master` branch and have pushed it to my repo! What should I do now?
Assuming `upstream` is `CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA` and `origin` is your fork, do the commands:
```bash
git reset upstream/master
git push --repo=origin --force
```

For more frequently asked questions, see the [developer FAQ](../doc/DEVELOPER_FAQ.md).
